If you have been using Spring for some time now,
you're probably already familiar with the RestTemplate,
which is used to make REST HTTP requests in Spring.
However, if you look at its Java doc,
they're basically saying it will eventually become
deprecated and replaced by WebClient.
And there is actually very limited OAuth support for the
RestTemplate in Spring Security 5.
The OAuth2 version of the RestTemplate is not a part
of Spring Security as of 5.6 .1.
Hence,
you're probably better off choosing the WebClient over the
RestTemplate going forward as WebClient can be used in both
reactive and traditional web MVC applications.
It supports both synchronous and asynchronous requests.
By simply using the block, it will behave just like the RestTemplate.
In the next sections,
I will demonstrate how to use both to implement token relay and client credentials.